THE CAPITAL OF THE FIRE NATION
There he is!
Stop the escape!
- Stop!
Over there!
Hurry up!
Over there. grab it!
Over there.
- Don't let him get away!
Hurry up!
After them!
Stop!
A surveyor.
Hurry up!
Come on!
Let's go!
After them!
Take it to the King of Earth.
They're brewing a war!
Over there!
- Leave now!
You're too late.
Your plans are already on the way
To the Kingdom of Earth.
Good.
That's where the eyes will be focused.
Everyone except us.
We are ready to attack.
When your King gets the plans.
he will lead his troops to your borders
and will rally other nations to his support.
Water hyenas. wind shepherds
and the world -
pay attention to the exporters.
Did you want us to know?
We are not your destination.
Aim higher.
Much higher.
- Why?
Why are you doing this?
Because our moment has come.
Ingenious plot. nobility.
Windbreakers are still not
a tactical threat.
It's not about windbreakers.
It's about living among them.
The only one who can defy us.
- The Avatar has not yet been revealed.
That's why we kill them all.
Water.
Country.
Fire.
Aircraft.
For millennia
four peoples have lived in harmony.
That peace was brought about by the avatar.
The only person.
who controls all four elements...
and protects the fragile balance of nations.
When one avatar dies.
this soul is born into a new body
in an eternal cycle.
A new manifestation has not yet appeared
since the previous avatar died.
So I come to Lord Sozin.
the ruthless ruler of the fire nation.
launches a relentless military campaign
to conquer the world.
At first. Sozin decides to defeat the only one.
who might challenge him.
The next ruler of the elements.
A windbreaker that is not necessarily
not yet ready to become an avatar.
SOUTHERN WIND TEMPLE
Aang!
Look!
Is that Aang?
Who else?
The Spreader.
Just admiring the scenery.
The Tsutop monk is looking for you.
You skipped practice again!
You know I already know how to
the same old workouts.
Aang.
You may be more advanced than others.
but you have a lot to learn.
Believe it or not.
one day you may hope
listened to your teachers more.
You and other students need to help
in the preparations for the big comet festival.
There is more work to do before
the other windsweepers arrive.
How many are coming?
What is that sound?
Look over there!
There are many.
So many!
Look at those!
- All of them.
Come on. Aang! There they are!
Wait!
Did you tell him?
The moment was not right.
- What?
We cannot wait for the right moment.
We need to talk to the Council now.
Aang has always been a child prodigy.
The youngest fan in history.
who has earned the badge of a master.
He is still only twelve.
We cannot ask him to do this.
Sozin attacks the Earth Kingdom.
Water tribes send warriors.
and we too must help the exiles.
We need an avatar.
Aang is a powerful man.
but he still has a lot to learn.
Responsibility. expectations. sacrifices.
Above all. he needs to know.
who he is.
If we send him inexperienced.
he may not meet our requirements.
For that. he and the whole world
may never recover.
The role of the avatar is a heavy responsibility.
not meant for a child.
Our part is not
to choose who bears the burden.
You've got too close to Aang
to see it. Brother Gyatso.
Aang must leave immediately
to practice other spells.
If only he still had time to help.
Are all festivals hard work?
The last one was held a hundred years ago.
and I wasn't alive then. if you can believe it.
You wouldn't think so.
Remember the last time I brought you here?
- That's when I got my tattoo.
They are usually done in the main hall.
I wanted you to have yours
in Yangchen's presence.
The previous avatar of the wind shepherds.
After his death. the following avatar was born
to another people in an eternal cycle.
After Yangchen's death...
came from the water sprites Kuruk.
The kingdom of Kyoshi...
And the Roku of the fire nation.
So the next avatar is
the windbender again.
The spirit of Yangchen resonates in one of us.
Aang. you have always been special.
The most talented ventilator I know.
- I don't want to be special.
You still are.
Aang. you are the avatar.
The fire has started down a dark road.
It threatens to upset the balance of the world.
Only the avatar. the master of the elements
can save the world.
The world needs an avatar.
The world needs you.
You leave immediately
practice other spells.
Just now?
Would I abandon my friends. my home and you?
This would be a huge burden for anyone.
You're not just anyone.
You are strong. kind and generous.
Remember that. Always remember who you are.
I can't think of anyone better.
to whom to bestow this power.
I don't want that power.
That's why you make a great avatar.
Why do I have to be different?
Can't I just keep pretending to be your friend?
You are my friend.
You will always be my friend.
Moi. Appa.
Can't you sleep either?
Gyatso said that I am supposedly an avatar.
Me.
I'm not allowed to feed the bison calves either.
and I'm supposed to save the world?
They say I have to remember who I am.
I know who I am.
I like windball. banana cake
and fooling around with friends.
That's me.
I can't stop
the fire nation or the war.
For others. I'm lucky to have my talent.
but I'd change places at any time.
I don't want to leave. I don't want the responsibility.
I am afraid of power and of being alone!
I'm scared.
True.
Flying always clears the mind.
For now.
Hop hop!
Remember: no survivors.
We're under attack!
What is it now?
- Come with me!
Where is Aang?
Aang!
I did.
Rising storm. Shall we return home?
Quickly. that's it!
Shut up. You'll be safe in the corner.
Stay low.
Don't worry. Appa! Hang in there!
Another time you might have won.
But not then.
when we have the power of the comet!
SUSIVUONO
Let's go!
Thank you.
All ears.
The wall is watched in three-hour shifts.
but some of you can't seem to stay in position.
From now on...
two guards at once
that's twice as many shifts.
Any complaints?
Me too. Keep working.
Let's go.
Where are we going?
- The fishermen returned without their catch.
You always have to do everything yourself.
They don't appreciate your leadership skills.
- They don't get it.
Very funny.
Katara!
Where were you before?
You made water spells again.
Nobody saw me.
but it doesn't matter.
If you are exposed
as a water trap for the fire nation...
The fire has not approached the village for years.
There's nothing to see in me either.
Even the sucker punching wine is more skilled than I am.
It's for the best.
You could help out more in the village.
- You don't always have to prepare for battle.
We are at war.
- Water spells are our culture.
Our job is to keep it alive.
Our job is to survive.
- I know.
If Dad were here...
- I am!
Katara.
Cheer later and paddle.
Well done.
- I'm not doing this.
Sokka!
Does it hurt?
Oh no. that's too bad.
What is that?
Strange.
Let's grab a canoe. or we're fishin'.
That would be ironic.
Maybe I'll jump on an ice floe.
Katara?
Finally.
Where did he come from?
- I don't know.
Good. we're not dying.
Let's go home.
What are you doing?
You're not going to leave him. are you?
A glowing iceberg just exploded.
and a mysterious bald head popped out.
Where did you get the idea to take her home?
Sokka. he's just a child.
We can't leave him here.
Why should I be obeyed?
I am only responsible for the safety of the village.
Looks like a carcass.
- What is that mark?
I'm watching.
It can't be.
What is it. Grandma?
This is a ventilator.
Impossible. there are no more windbreakers.
We won't get answers until he wakes up.
Let's let him rest.
Come on.
There is only a water tribe on the south bank.
That's where we have to go.
Is that where the avatar is?
- That's right.
Because of the light?
Hourly?
Sometimes the light rays are just
twinkling pieces of winter sky.
For three years
I've been chasing every tip. every rumor...
and whispers about the avatar.
I will continue for another three years if necessary.
Prince Zuko. I don't think your father wants...
My father banished me until then.
until I find the avatar.
That's exactly what I intend to do.
It's just hard to watch your hopefulness
every time you see a sign.
It will be worth all the effort. once I take
my place as heir to my lord of fire.
Perhaps it is time to remember.
that the throne does not mean everything.
Maybe not for you.
For me again...
It is my destiny.
Come on!
Hippa!
You're caught!
Get out of there! What are you thinking?
Have I not trained you
to stay alert?
He can be the enemy.
- I am not an enemy.
Who then?
I'm Aang.
Where am I?
How did I end up here?
- You tell me.
Wait a minute.
Appa?
Appa! Where is Appa?
Sokka. have you seen that boy?
I am.
That's not strange at all.
Appa!
A wind-blower indeed.
Have you seen Appa?
Lentobiisoniani.
Six legs. horns. brown arrowheads.
Lentobison.
Lentobison!
- It doesn't help to shout.
What is that?
Appa!
Lentobison.
So you were caught in a storm.
- It came up suddenly.
The storm broke out after I left home.
from the southern windmill.
That's where the wind scouts live.
or not all of them.
The vast majority arrived
to the big comet festival.
Comet Festival...
Grandma?
Water. earth. fire. air.
A long time ago the four nations
lived in harmony.
Then everything changed.
when the fire nation attacked.
Only the avatar could prevent it.
the lord of the four elements.
When the world needed him most.
he disappeared.
So the fire sowed destruction.
We entered a dark age.
The whole village knows this story.
You wouldn't know. young man.
You also don't know that windbreakers
have never been seen in living memory...
and that the wind temple of the south
was the first to fall.
because you were a prisoner of ice all this time.
A large comet seen in the sky
last seen a hundred years ago.
He may look like just a boy.
but he's more than that.
He is the last fan.
The prince dragged us
to the coldest corner of the world.
Why the previous ones do not lead
to hot springs?
You got a minute. Lieutenant Jee?
- No. sir.
Let me clarify something.
Our mission is vital
for the future of our people.
So we're looking for an avatar.
We show our value.
We will see our homes and families again.
Or die trying.
Are you OK?
One hundred years. All my friends and acquaintances.
Everyone is gone.
I am sorry.
I know how hard it is
it is to lose loved ones.
When I was a kid. I didn't really understand this war.
Then the firemen arrived.
They destroyed everything in their path.
Everything.
Everyone.
After that our father left
to hunt down the fire-eaters.
We haven't seen him for three years.
He left the reins to Soko
when he was only 13.
I had to grow up fast.
All of us.
You are never really ready.
until you have to.
They were the first attacks of the fire nation
against the water sprite.
They were ruthless.
Then the fire nation conquered
most of the world.
Water farmers are still resisting
especially in the north.
Earth's empire is still hanging on.
I hope so.
I had friends in the UK.
I used to visit them.
No more visiting other nations.
Everyone stays with friends.
Good. your skills are sharp.
- I'm about to meet the greatest of warriors.
Avatar Kyoshi tamed
the exiles division with his own hands.
You're ready for anything.
How about a cup of jasmine tea?
Assume you can beat the avatar.
That was a task your father thought impossible.
That's why your homecoming might be
unexpected.
You are mistaken.
No one comes here.
This place is quiet and hidden.
You're a bouncer!
Hardly. I'm trying to spar.
But I'm the only bender in the southern tribe.
Sokka doesn't like my training.
He fears the fire nation will get wind of it. and...
And what?
I'm the only waterer in the village for a reason.
Everyone else was killed.
Sokka just doesn't get it.
I am a warrior.
It is my duty to help our people.
According to the monks. folding is about
energy and balance.
Finding the balance
by feeling the energy around you.
By finding balance. you can feel the energy.
Good!
I didn't even try.
Good. I just need to let go.
Katara?
The fire is...
- We spotted them. Get into position!
Throwers...
- Download them.
Why did they come here?
What do they want after all this?
Him.
Aren't there more?
but the last ventilator?
You are the avatar.
Aang?
I knew he was hiding something.
When the world needed an avatar.
the coward disappeared.
He escaped. and people died.
They came ashore.
Go into hiding.
I want to...
- Right now.
We need to get to safety.
I am Prince Zuko.
I will become the firstborn son of Lord Ozai.
We're not looking for your homes.
We're just looking for someone who doesn't belong here.
Someone who is not one of you.
Hand him over immediately.
or I'll burn this place to the ground.
Where is he?
- You must not give him up.
He doesn't belong here.
- That would be wrong!
My father told me to protect the village.
- But remember what Mum said.
We need to protect them.
those who cannot.
Aang has lost everything. He is an avatar!
He lied about it!
This has been a heavy responsibility for you.
A manager does more than just fish.
Give others something to live for.
That's what the avatar represents: hope.
We need it as much as we need food.
I know I do.
I am Sokka. son of Hakoda.
Well... the lord of snow and ice.
In the name of the Susivuono water tribe
I demand that you leave immediately!
If this is your chosen path.
so be it.
Let's solve this between the two of us!
Do you need an army?
I thought firebenders were tough.
Don't go cheap.
We have a clear superiority.
Dishonourable.
I agree.
Who needs an army?
Leave him alone!
Impossible.
The game is over. Burn the whole place down.
No!
I surrender. as long as you leave them alone.
It's me you're looking for.
Grab it.
- Wait!
No worries.
I've never been defended before.
You are the bravest person I have ever met.
We have to help him somehow!
Fix the gate supports
and don't slack off in training.
They were watered down today.
- In training?
Don't be intimidated by younger people.
You have to show them who's in charge.
Take the lead.
Let's save the weird kid.
Many people other than me would not have believed
that this day would come.
Can I ask you a question?
Excuse me.
I am Iroh. son of Azulon. Lord of the Fire.
Just ask.
Why did the fire nation start the war?
According to some. our nature is
to expand and consume like fire.
Others believe that stability will be achieved
only in our power.
The aim of the conquests is to
peace and unity.
Peace comes from respect for life
not killing.
A noble cause. an avatar.
After all. the majority view is that
the start of the war does not matter.
The only difference is the end.
It is believed that by imprisoning you
the people will finally do it.
Do you believe the same?
I have to go. but I'm looking forward to it
for our future conversations.
In the meantime
I send you jasmine tea.
It's reassuring.
The hunt will be difficult.
- I know.
Maybe we could follow
in their wake.
Or...
Let's go the other way.
You're kidding.
No way! There's no way you can get me
to get up from that...
Avatars.
Yes. sir!
Stop!
Grab it!
Fire!
Hello. sonny!
Sokka!
Thank you for coming to my rescue.
- We don't want flameheads jumping in our faces.
Firefighters do not give up.
They will come after you.
So we can't go home.
We would endanger others.
Where to then?
Gyatso.
This would be a huge burden for anyone.
You're not just anyone.
You are strong. kind and generous.
Remember that.
Always remember who you are.
Aang?
What is he doing?
Aang!
- Come on!
Aang. stop!
Please!
Aang!
Aang.
I can't think of anyone better.
to whom to bestow this power.
You are my friend.
You will always be my friend.
Don't get mad. but what was that?
I don't know.
This is new to me.
The monks are gone. and I'm left alone.
Listen.
When you lose everything.
then you realise how strong you are
and you learn to fight.
They made a costly sacrifice for me.
I'll make sure they didn't die in vain.
I have to do what they wanted me to do.
I'll learn all the other spells
to restore balance to the world.
Is that all?
This was my home. and now it's gone.
Only after we have lost something
we realise its importance.
We will do whatever it takes to make it happen.
Anything.
I don't know where I'll end up
and whether this is where I want to be.
I still know this.
I am the avatar.
This is just the beginning.
Subtitles by Jouni Jussila